# Measuring the Quality of Machine-Generated Lyrics

Project for CS506 under the supervision of Prof. Ameeta Agrawal @ Portland State University.

### Abstract
This project examines the feasibility of utilizing in-context learning to develop a metric capable of effectively assessing the quality of machine-generated lyrics while concurrently aligning with human judgment. The proposed metric takes into account factors such as originality, interestingness, and grammatical structure, in order to evaluate the lyrical composition of songs written by ChatGPT, Bard, NotionAI, and HuggingChat chat services. The metric is formulated using in-context learning (ICL) and prompt engineering on the OpenAI's GPT3.5 Turbo API. 

### Data Generation & Collection
To create the dataset, a combination of ChatGPT, and BARD, Notion AI, and HuggingChat services were employed. Each model generated 15 song lyrics, resulting in a combined total of 60 machine-generated songs. These songs fell under five distinct categories, including Sadness, Love, Vice, Party, and Open Theme. The prompts used are given below:

- Write lyrics for 5 novel songs in English. The songs should be an original and should be meaningful. You are free to choose any topic or any tone. Your output should be in the following format:
Song Title
Song Lyrics
- Write lyrics for 3 novel songs in English. The songs should be an original and should be meaningful. The song lyrics should be on the theme of sadness and despair. The lyrics should clearly talk about the reason for the sadness such as of remembering a lost loved one, a broken relationship, etc. Your output should be in the following format:
Song Title
Song Lyrics
- Write lyrics for 3 novel songs in English. The songs should be an original and should be meaningful. The song lyrics should be on the theme of love. Your output should be in the following format:
Song Title
Song Lyrics
- Write lyrics for 2 novel songs in English. The songs should be an original and should be meaningful. The song lyrics should be on the theme of human’s vices: pride, greed, wrath, envy, lust, gluttony, and sloth. Your output should be in the following format:
Song Title
Song Lyrics
- Write lyrics for 2 novel songs in English. The songs should be an original and should be meaningful. The song lyrics should be on the theme of a fun time or a party. Your output should be in the following format:
Song Title
Song Lyrics

### Motivation
This is an extension of sorts to the project titled [Bollyrics- an automatic Lyrics Generator for Romanized Hindi based on](https://github.com/kgujral2612/BollywoodLyrics/tree/main). Working on a lyrics generator brought to light the absence of a metric to measure the quality of machine-generate lyrics. Due to the complexity of measuring creativity in general, in-context learning has a perfect application under such settings. The intention behind this project was to build a universal metric that can be used in any language and can be applied to measure the quality of lyrics generated by NLP modfels.

This repository contains 
- Data
- ICL Prompts used to build the metric



